= AuditRails
An action based auditor, which has internal as well as outgoing link tracking.

It is inspired from many great audit gems in rails community that audits model and I was looking for a gem which can audit based on actions as well as can audit link tracking. This gem just serve this purpose.

= Pre-requisites:
For rails 3.1.x and ruby 1.9.3:

gem install audit_rails

or in application’s Gemfile add:

gem ‘audit_rails’

= Install

rails g audit_rails:install

= Usage
=== To add audit migration:

rake audit_rails:install:migrations

=== Add audit.js to application.js file:

//= require audit_rails/audit

=== To add additional attributes to Audit (let's say book_id):
1. Add attributes to migration generated from above rake task
2. Inherit from AuditRails::Audit:
    #MyApp/app/models/audit.rb
    class Audit < AuditRails::Audit
      attr_accessible :action, :controller, :description, :user_name, 
      :book_id

      #add associations as usual:
      belongs_to :book
    end

=== To log user events
Simply call 'add_to_audit' with desired parameters in any controller (as this is now a helper method included in application_controller.rb of application)

=== To override controller's add_to_audit method (or the helper method)
Simply re-implement in application_controller.rb

=== To track user login (one per day) 
Override current_user method in application controller, e.g.:
    def current_user
      add_to_audit('login', 'sessions', "John Smith")
      super
    end

=== To see all audits
Go to <app-url>/audit_rails/audits

=== To download the audit report as xls file:
  * Add this to initializers/mime_types.rb
      Mime::Type.register "application/vnd.ms-excel", :xls

  * Use below link in views:
      link_to audit_rails.audits_path(:format => "xls")

= Changelog
https://github.com/gouravtiwari/audit_rails/blob/master/CHANGELOG.rdoc

= Contribute

You are welcome to contribute and add more feature to this gem. I have added rspec and guard to it to run tests quickly. So running specs shouldn't be a problem.

Please fork it, add specs and send a pull request!

= License
This project rocks and uses MIT-LICENSE.
